[Music]
you know these days our phones are
basically a part of us almost like
you're left painting while they are
magical devices that can do pretty much
anything phones aren't invincible check
out these tips and tricks so that your
cell phone can stay by your side for
longer number one get rid of old apps
occasionally take a nap inventory if you
notice that you're not using an app
anymore install it from your phone this
will free up space and help it run more
efficiently it's also good to be aware
of which apps are using the most space
to use low-power mode
turning on this feature will make your
phone charge faster but just know that
apps might run slower and you may stop
getting emails automatic updates any
extra things running in the background
will stop or at least slow down three if
you're in an area with bad reception
turn on airplane mode your phone uses
battery to search for reception even if
it isn't picking up any service your
phone will continue to search for some
this will seriously drain your battery
if you know you're going to be in an
area with bad reception turning on
airplane mode will save your battery for
be smart about putting your phone in
your pocket it's the easiest way to
carry your phone we all do it but the
thing is your pocket could be full of
lint dust and other little debris that
could get into your phone's charging
port when the port is full of this yucky
stuff it won't charge as well when
you're picking a phone case get one that
has a little plug for the charging port
five clean your phone safely we all know
not to get our phones wet but any kind
of moisture is bad for your phone this
includes what you might reach for to
clean it with don't use wet wipes
rubbing alcohol or sprays just use a dry
cotton cloth that clean the screen and
the back like what you might clean your
glasses with six know when to stop doing
software updates the people who made
your phone will only give you software
support for two generations if your
phone is older you might still be able
to do the up
but certain apps may not run right which
can be frustrating a new update that
isn't exactly compatible with your phone
will just eat up space 2 7 power your
phone all the way down once in a while
now this is different from letting the
battery get to zero hitting the actual
off button and let your phone sit for a
few minutes doing this once a week is
good for your phone and it will extend
its life 8 your phone can tell you a lot
about its battery life in your phone
settings you should be able to see how
much battery time you have left in hours
and minutes your phone might also be
able to tell you when you last charged
it this can help you stop overcharging
on that note number 9 staying at 100%
all the time isn't good for your phone
if your phone is hooked up to your
charger and keeps charging after its
read for 100% it can drain the battery
your phone contains a lithium ion
battery which means it operates best
when your phone is between 30 and 50
percent keeping your phone at 100% all
of the time makes it tired
speaking of which number 10 don't charge
your phone overnight to avoid the
problem I just talked about get out of
the habit of charging your phone when
you go to bed I know it's easy to do but
charging overnight will cause it to get
to that 100% but keep charging it past
that for hours while you're in a deep
slumber in the morning you'll find that
your phone probably won't stay at a very
full battery for long 11 avoid charging
your phone on your bed too
it's a fire hazard your phone will get
warm as you charge it and it's plugged
into an electrical outlet right if there
are any tears in the cord you haven't
noticed or if it doesn't fit just right
in your phone's charging port you might
be at risk for a spark number 12 so what
is the best way to charge your phone
well don't let your phone lose its
battery completely before you charge it
just wait till it gets below that 30
percent line your phone can remember
when you charge it so if you plug in
your phone every time it gets a little
below one
hundred eventually it'll have a hard
time recharging remember your phone
functions best at 30 to 50% if you're on
the go a lot get a wireless charger or
charging pet smart phones charge best
this way anyway and number 13 leave your
phone alone while it's charging this may
be the hardest advice to follow don't
use your phone while it's charging think
of charging as a way of letting your
phone take a much-needed nap if you keep
using your phone while it's plugged in
it won't charge as quickly and the
battery will drain faster after you
unplug it 14 phones don't like extreme
temperatures well neither do i if it's
super cold or super hot it's not good
for your phone either one can hurt its
internal parts keeping your phone at a
consistent mild temperature is best
don't leave it in your car or outside 15
invest in that screen protector it might
just seem like spending extra money but
it could save your phone screen
replacing cracked screens can be
expensive and frustrating doing
everything you can to protect your phone
from drops is important this means
getting a good shock absorbing foam case
2:16 using a black wall paper can make
your battery last longer bizarre right
but it makes sense if your screen is
black your phone doesn't have to work to
light up any bright colored pixels along
with this using a wallpaper that moves
can drain your battery - that's a lot of
effort for your phone to make that
wallpaper move all day or light it up
try out a black screen for a day and let
me know how it goes in the comments did
it really make a difference 17 use the
locking system on your phone whether you
prefer facial recognition iris scanning
or your thumbprint blocking your phone
not only keeps things safe and secure
but it prevents any accidental usage
while your phone is tumbling around in
your bag by accidental usage
I mean accidentally opening apps or
email and of course calling someone by
mistake you know what that's called 18th
set a short screen timeout
yeah it might get a little annoying
unlocking your phone more often but
setting a 15 to 30 second timeout can go
a long way it keeps your phone running
more efficiently because it will take a
little snooze more often and this will
save your battery too and while we're
talking about your phone screen number
19 try to make yourself check your
screen less often that might sound hard
and you might be thinking does it really
make that much difference well it turns
out it does researchers say that the
average person checks their phone about
wait for it 150 times a day each time
you light up your screen it uses a
little bit of battery think of how much
battery you're using just to check your
screen that many times a day and number
20 a tip for travelers turn off your
phone's location tracking this is a good
tip for anyone but especially for those
frequent travelers who might be
stressing about their phone going 0% on
them while abroad a lot of apps will ask
you if it can track your location so
your friends will know where you're at
whether you think this is cool or creepy
it really drains your battery turn this
capability completely off in your
settings hey if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life